# PES-Assignment-2
PES-Assignment-2 Production and Test Code for implementing Linked List Queue and Circular Queue
/*
 * Author: Harsh Beriwal & Howdy Pierce (for llfifo.h and cbfifo.h)
 * Compiler Used: gcc (MinGW.org GCC-6.3.0-1) 6.3.0
 * IDE Used: Eclipse Version: 2022-06 (4.24.0)
 *
 * The below line was taken from the Internet - https://blog.hubspot.com/sales/famous-quotes
 *
 * "If you look at what you have in life, "
	"you'll always have more. If you look at what "
	"you don't have in life, you'll never have enough. "
	"-Oprah Winfrey";
 *
 */
 
 
 While running the Code, you can download all the files in the same directory and run the following code. 
 
 To compile 
 
 gcc -o Assignment_2 llfifo.c cbfifo.c llfifo.h cbfifo.h main.c test_llfifo.c test_llfifo.h test_cbfifo.c test_cbfifo.h -Wall -Werror
 
 To Run 
 
 .\Assignment_2.exe 
 
 MakeFile can also be used for the same. The Makefile was updated and it was not checked properly. 
 
 
 There are in total 10 files in the Project. 
 1) llfifo.c -  llfifo.c includes the Production code with all the functions for implementing Linked list Queue
  The details of each function is given in the respective llfifo.h file by Professor Howdy Pierce.
  
 2) llfifo.h - /*
 * llfifo.h - a dynamically-growing FIFO
 *
 * Author: Howdy Pierce, howdy.pierce@colorado.edu
 *
 * DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE: You should check this file into your repo
 * exactly as it was delivered to you.
 */
 
 3) cbfifo.c - cbfifo.c includes the Production code with all the functions for implementing
 * Circular buffer Queue
 * The details of each function is given in the respective cbfifo.h file
 * by Professor Howdy Pierce.

4) cbfifo.h - /*
 * cbfifo.h - a fixed-size FIFO implemented via a circular buffer
 * 
 * Author: Howdy Pierce, howdy.pierce@colorado.edu
 * 
 * DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE: You should check this file into your repo
 * exactly as it was delivered to you.
 */
 
 5) test_llfifo.c -   test_llfifo.c includes all the functions used in test_llfifo(). The details of each function
 is given in test_llfifo.h
 
 6) test_llfifo.h -   test_llfifo.h includes all the declarations of functions used in test_llfifo().
  The details of each function is given below.
  
 7) test_cbfifo.c -  test_cbfifo.c includes all the functions used in test_cbfifo(). The details of each function
  is given in test_cbfifo.h
  
 8) test_cbfifo.h -  test_llfifo.h includes all the declarations of functions used in test_cbfifo().
  The details of each function is given below.
  
 9) main.c -  main.c includes int main() and calls the llfifo and cbfifo test functions

10) makefile - for direct compilation. Run make command to commpile 

All the important functions in the code 

**************************************LINKED LIST QUEUE*************************************************
/*
 * Creates and initializes the FIFO
 *
 * Parameters:
 *   capacity  the initial size of the fifo, in number of elements.
 *             Valid values are in the range of 0 to the limits of memory
 *
 * Returns: A pointer to a newly-created llfifo_t n, or NULL in
 *   case of an error.
 */
1) llfifo_t *llfifo_create(int capacity);


/*
 * Enqueues an element onto the FIFO, growing the FIFO by adding
 * additional elements, if necessary
 *
 * Parameters:
 *   fifo    The fifo in question
 *   element The element to enqueue, which cannot be NULL
 *
 * Returns:
 *   The new length of the FIFO on success, -1 on failure. It is an error to attempt
 * to enqueue the NULL pointer.
 */
2) int llfifo_enqueue(llfifo_t *fifo, void *element);


/*
 * Removes ("dequeues") an element from the FIFO, and returns it
 *
 * Parameters:
 *   fifo  The fifo in question
 *
 * Returns:
 *   The dequeued element, or NULL if the FIFO was empty
 */
3) void *llfifo_dequeue(llfifo_t *fifo);


/*
 * Returns the number of elements currently on the FIFO.
 *
 * Parameters:
 *   fifo  The fifo in question
 *
 * Returns:
 *   The number of elements currently on the FIFO
 */
4) int llfifo_length(llfifo_t *fifo);


/*
 * Returns the FIFO's current capacity
 *
 * Parameters:
 *   fifo  The fifo in question
 *
 * Returns:
 *   The current capacity, in number of elements, for the FIFO
 */
5) int llfifo_capacity(llfifo_t *fifo);


/*
 * Teardown function: Frees all dynamically allocated
 * memory. After calling this function, the fifo should not be used
 * again!
 *
 * Parameters:
 *   fifo  The fifo in question
 *
 * Returns: none
 */
6) void llfifo_destroy(llfifo_t *fifo);


****************************************CIRCULAR BUFFER QUEUE *********************************************
/*
 * Enqueues data onto the FIFO, up to the limit of the available FIFO
 * capacity.
 *
 * Parameters:
 *   buf      Pointer to the data
 *   nbyte    Max number of bytes to enqueue
 * 
 * Returns:
 *   The number of bytes actually enqueued, which could be 0. In case
 * of an error, returns (size_t) -1.
 */
7) size_t cbfifo_enqueue(void *buf, size_t nbyte);


/*
 * Attempts to remove ("dequeue") up to nbyte bytes of data from the
 * FIFO. Removed data will be copied into the buffer pointed to by buf.
 *
 * Parameters:
 *   buf      Destination for the dequeued data
 *   nbyte    Bytes of data requested
 * 
 * Returns:
 *   The number of bytes actually copied, which will be between 0 and
 * nbyte. 
 * 
 * To further explain the behavior: If the FIFO's current length is 24
 * bytes, and the caller requests 30 bytes, cbfifo_dequeue should
 * return the 24 bytes it has, and the new FIFO length will be 0. If
 * the FIFO is empty (current length is 0 bytes), a request to dequeue
 * any number of bytes will result in a return of 0 from
 * cbfifo_dequeue.
 */
8)size_t cbfifo_dequeue(void *buf, size_t nbyte);


/*
 * Returns the number of bytes currently on the FIFO. 
 *
 * Parameters:
 *   none
 * 
 * Returns:
 *   Number of bytes currently available to be dequeued from the FIFO
 */
9) size_t cbfifo_length();


/*
 * Returns the FIFO's capacity
 *
 * Parameters:
 *   none
 * 
 * Returns:
 *   The capacity, in bytes, for the FIFO
 */
10) size_t cbfifo_capacity();
 
